hour, but Sunday is when Storm kero
arrives, bringing strong winds
across the whole of the UK. The
across the whola of the UK. The
strongest
across the whole of the UK. The
strongest winds could gust in excess
of 80 miles an hour bringing
of 80 mils an hour bringing
disruptive
of 80 miles an hour bringing
disruptive whether our way. Before
we get there, overnight tonight, the
breeze is picking up across western
areas. That will tend to lift the
frost by the end of the night in the
West. Further east, still cold with
patches of frost to start the day on
Friday so it will be a chilly start
to the day and for many others dry
with planty of
with plenty of sunshine. In the
with planty of sunshine. In the
West,
with plenty of sunshine. In the
West, we will see clouds thicken in
Northern Ireland, a few patches of
rain in the afternoon and we get
stronger winds blowing into western
Scotland later in the day and asked
the winds pick—up it’s probably
the winds pick-up it’s probably
going to
the winds pick—up it’s probably
going to start a feel a bit cooler
than it has done. On Saturday
although it’s a dry start to the day
we’ll see the rain get into the
north—west with some snow for a time
north-west with some snow for a time
over the high
north—west with some snow for a time
over the high ground in Scotland.
Very windy as well with potential
gusts of 60—70 mph for Scotland and
gusts of 60-70 mph for Scotland and
Northern
gusts of 60—70 mph for Scotland and
Northern Ireland, potentially
disruptive gusts of wind. On Sunday
storm Keira arrives, bringing peak
gusts of 80
WIND BLOWS
BRANCHES CREAK
LEAVES RUSTLE
BIRDS CHIRP
FLUTTERING WINGS
CROWS CAW
True Crime podcasts.
Listen now on the BBC Sounds app.
The plan is Universal Credit today,
employed tomorrow.
We are the payer of last resort.
I’ve had to use food banks.
What we do every day is really
serious. I want a properjob.
I didn’t think I’d find myself at
47 years of age on the streets.
BBC TWO gets unprecedented access
to Government and claimants...
There ain’t no manual that tells
you how to become a stepmum.
It’s hard for us, so Ijust can’t
imagine how hard it is for the kids.
I just want the children
to be happy!
Ijust feel like you should have
come together as one.
You feel you’ve been dealt
a terrible hand,
but your luck can change.
Tonight, we’re in Harpenden.
Welcome to Question Time.
On tonight’s panel, Robert Buckland,
a barrister elected to Westminster
in 2010, a former Prisons Minister
and Solicitor General
for England and Wales,
now the Government’s Justice
Secretary.
Labour MP Stella Creasy,
elected in 2010, a shadow
minister under Ed Miliband,
as a backbencher she’s led campaigns
on payday loans and abortion rights
in Northern Ireland.
Former Energy Secretary
in David Cameron’s coalition
government, he is acting co—leader
of the Liberal Democrats
and rumoured to be running
for the leadership —
perhaps he’ll tell us
tonight — Ed Davey.
Rachel Shabi, author and journalist
who specialises in political
commentary and the Middle East.
And an actor who appeared
alongside ScarlettJohansson
in the film Under The Skin,
award—winning TV
presenter and campaigner
for disabilities, Adam
Pearson.
APPLAUSE.
Welcome to the panel,
to the audience here, and,
of course, to you at home.
Do join in the conversation
on social media.
We would love to hear
what you’ve got to say.
Let’s kick off with our first
question, from Georgina Jones.
Good evening.
Is stopping the automatic release
of terrorists enough, or is itjust
postponing the problem 7
We have been talking
about this all this week,
since the attack in south London.
Stella Creasy?
Ifear you have a point,
Georgina, actually.
I think one of the things
all of us are worried
about is there is a ticking
time bomb here.
It’s not a lot of people,
we need to keep that in proportion.
And one of the things I find very
frustrating about this situation
we are in right now is that we have
known about this for some time.
In 2016, an independent review
showed there was a problem
in our prisons with people who had
been radicalised, and we need
to be clear it’s notjust
Islamic radicalisation,
there is far right radicalisation
as well, expressed very real
concerns that our prison service
wasn’t able to cope,
and it is now 2020 and we are
suddenly faced with the idea
of emergency legislation.
We need to disrupt the behaviours
and tactics that mean that
people become radicalised.
That’s the thing that’s going
to keep us safe on our streets,
as well as deal with those peopla
in our prisons.
It’s very important we talk
about the sentences as well.
There are people that have been
convicted of terrorism offences,
and some of those are what you might
call low level terrorism offences.
50 actually their sentences
aren’t very long.
There are also people who go
into prison for other offences,
who then become radicalised
in prison as well.
And we need to be able to deal
with all of these issues.
Ijust worry, Robert,
it’s really frightening
for all of us to be in a position
where we are trying to make
legislation on the hoof to deal
with such serious issues,
when we’ve had the evidence
about what needs to be done,
when we have had 40% cuts
in the Ministry ofJustice,
on the people who are trying to deal
with these problems,
and actually, the work that needs
to go on within communities to stop
these problems in the first place
has been cut as well.
So, there will be this legislation
about automatic release.
And I think, you know, frankly,
the idea that it’s about having
a fight with the judges is a bit
of a red herring.
You need to have a fight
with the Treasury, if we are really
going to crack this.
Because you can’t do public
safety on the cheap.
Actually, Robert Buckland,
why has this...
Why are you in a position of having
emergency legislation?
You have been in
power for ten years.
You, yourself, have been
Solicitor General, you have
been Prisons Minister,
now you are just a secretary.
now you are justice secretary.
Since 2014, you have been
holding those positions.
I mean, the reason you have got
people like Sudesh Amman
coming out on the streets
is because you haven’t
changed the law to stop it.
In all that time.
That’s not quite right,
because the law has evolved
over the last few years.
There are sentences out there,
extended, determinate sentences,
where if a judge says an offender
is dangerous, then the parole
board is involved.
What has happened here
is that there is a group
of offenders who are subject
to automatic early release.
That was a provision
that was put in back in ‘05,
and it therefore applies to a large
number of offences.
Now, as Stella says,
it is a small group of people.
But I can’t take any
risks with public safety.
But you known about the risk they
posed to public safety for years.
Why haven’t you done
anything about it until now?
But we have.
Because while Stella is right
to talk about the review
that was done in 2016,
there has been an immense amount
of work that has been
done in our prisons,
with notjust my department,
not as the Home Office,
but the security services,
the police, all working together,
embedded in our prisons.
It hasn’t stopped it though, has it?
Well, I’ll say this,
this is a very complex cohort.
We are dealing with people who have
resorted to this behaviour
for a myriad of reasons.
There are some who are
genuinely ideological,
and harbour deep—seated hatred.
Who can be superficially compliant,
but who then turn on those
who try to help them.
There are others, I think,
that are capable of rehabilitation,
just as other types of criminals
in the criminaljustice process
can be rehabilitated.
But make no mistake,
this isn’t easy work.
Night and day, there is concentrated
and coordinated activity
by all the agencies to deal
with the problem.
And other countries come to us
to learn from the experience we have
had and to apply those rules
and practices in
their own countries.
So, it’s not a case of us
having done nothing.
We are working as hard as we can
to deal with this problem.
But, as I said, I cannot risk any
chance here that this sort
of atrocity can be repeated.
Hence the need for this emergency
legislation next week.
Ed?
I agree with Georgina
and I agree with Stella.
This is just kicking
the can down the road.
It may well be that we need to get
rid of early automatic release,
I think I agree with that.
But what happens when they are
eventually released?
And we got to use the time they are
in custody to have really effective
de—radicalisation programmes.
A really effective
rehabilitation programmes.
The Government says it’s
doing that, but it’s not.
There are terrorist prisoners
on a waiting list to get
on these programmes,
they are actually let out before
they have got to the programmes.
Because the Government have cut
the resources appallingly.
And Stella’s right, there are some
people who go into prison
and they are radicalised even more
because of the way the prison
systems are being run.
Our prison systems
are really overcrowded.
People are locked up for 22
hours, in some cases.
There are huge staff shortages.
The management of the prisons,
Robert, is in a shocking
state, and you know that.
Independent report after
independent report shows that.
And you are not going to deal
with this problem unless you sort
out the way that prisons are managed
and you get in early.
APPLAUSE.
The man there, in the blue shirt?
Isn’t this just an example of how
politicians have been distracted
by Brexit over the past three
to four years and haven’t
concentrated on what has
happened domestically?
The man in the front?
Surely those convicted of terrorism
in prison should be kept separate
from other prisoners to avoid
them being radicalised?
The woman at the back?
If we get rid of early release,
shouldn’t we do it for other violent
criminals and notjust people
accused of terrorism offences?
Extend to other people as well?
Yes, the woman in front?
To Stella’s point about arguing
with the treasurer, aren’t
we throwing an awful lot of money
after a lot of bad...
I suppose initiatives?
And why aren’t we looking to see how
the initiatives that have tried,
and tested, and failed,
why aren’t we looking to see
what’s working and not?
That a really good point.
Because one of the other failings
ofJustice Department —
sorry, Robert, you’re on the oche
here — one of the real big
failures is they haven’t
done those evaluations.
So there’s a whole set of different
approaches to radicalisation.
We need to know what best practice
is to keep the public safe.
And you are not putting enough
resources into that.
I’m sorry, that is not right.
We are constantly evaluating
the programmes we use,
because the threat shifts.
As Stella has mentioned,
far right extremism,
absolutely correct.
But it evolves.
And therefore, we are trying to be
as fleet of foot as possible to deal
with that evolving threat.
What is happening to the review
of Prevent, for example?
Which is the policy put in place
to try to deter people from doing
this in the first place.
When are we going
to see that review?
We are working on a number
of reviews at the moment.
But that one in particular?
Including Prevent.
Which, frankly, if we are not
constantly reviewing the programme,
I think we are failing in our duty.
And notjust Prevent,
it is also the protection agencies,
the multi—agency reviews.
We’ve got to get those right.
I’ve ordered a review into that.
But, of course, I can
order myriads of reviews.
The reality is that we are dealing
with a particularly
complex group of people.
The issue of separation was raised,
a very important point.
Now, in some cases,
that can work very well.
But there is a danger that if we put
all of the extremists in one
unit, we are creating
a college of extremism.
I’m sorry, Robert...
We have to take a very
modulated approach.
Robert, you have specialist units.
A special case.
Yes, we do.
You have specialist units for these
people and they are empty.
No, no, they are not empty.
Yes, they are.
You haven’t put the resources.
That is not true.
This point about resources...
Hang on, are they empty
or aren’t they?
No, they are not.
There are a number of individuals
in the separation units.
We have spare capacity.
But we don’t just shove people
in there for convenience.
We have to look at each case to make
sure it is right thing to do.
But, Robert, I know this government
doesn’t like experts very much.
But the fact is that
you haven’t listened to any
experts across the field.
Whether it is in the criminal
justice system or whether it is
people with expertise in counter
extremism or counter radicalisation.
And chief among them,
I have to say, you talk about not
wanting to take risks.
You are the risk.
This government is the risk.
APPLAUSE
Really?
We have seen 40% cuts to the prison
and criminaljustice system.
Cuts to prison services,
cuts to prison officers,
cuts to policeman, cuts to legal
aid, cuts to the Crown
Prosecution Service.
What did you think would
happen when you savaged
the system to that extent?
So, of course, this
is a problem of funding.
And it is expensive.
Law and order, public
safety, costs money.
You have to be willing
to invest in it.
And clearly this government is not.
APPLAUSE
I agree with everything
that has been said.
I think it leads into
the gentleman’s point that we have
all been distracted for the past
three and a half years,
and everything else appearsjust
completely flown off the radar.
And I’m afraid now it’s
coming back to bite,
and it’s biting incredibly hard.
And when it comes to the idea
of countering extremism,
I think if you are doing it
in prison, the horse
has already bolted.
And we need to deal with it
at a really early, embryonic stage,
and find out how they have been
radicalised on the outside,
to deal with that.
What is causing it,
what are the social factors?
And speak to those as well.
Because people just get more
radicalised in prisons.
They don’t help, it makes it worse.
And if you leave them
in prison is longer,
they are just going to have more
time to be radicalised.
And I think we have got
the horse and the cart
the complete wrong way
round with prison rehabilitation.
Yes, the woman there?
APPLAUSE.
Yes, sorry...
A lot of these children
grow up with a diet
in their childhood of hatred.
So, I’m just thinking,
what are our values?
What are you trying to teach them?
Just equality and tolerance?
Or is there something much deeper?
Like the opposite of hatred is love,
faithfulness, justice,
integrity, what’s right.
What are your values?
What values do you want to teach
these children who have
had a diet of hatred,
probably quite a lot
of their childhood?
In fact, we don’t know
that about them all,
what kind of childhood they had,
or whether they had
a diet of hatred or not.
But I take your point.
Yes, the woman there?
So, I want to ask, really,
what makes people feel
disenfranchised in the first place
which means, you know,
before they even get to the prisons,
before that even happens.
It used to be, under Labour,
that they had in communities
where this might be a problem,
they had community officers that
would come and talk to people
and it was in the policing.
And that’s gone.
And so now we’ve got
the far right happening,
and you’ve got to wonder why
that is certainly rising again.
You know, it’sjust
the cuts, really, I think.
The man in the blue shirt there.
Convicted terrorists have alienated
themselves from civilised society.
They are rightly in prison.
I agree with the initiative
that has been taken,
that they serve their full term.
But at the very least,
the society must be satisfied that,
before they’re let out
on the streets, 3 full risk
assessment has been made
that they are able and capable
to come on the streets
without being a risk to the public.
Let me take one more
before I move on, the man
at the back in the glasses.
Yes, you, sir.
I’d like to say, do the panel
feel there are three
contributory factors?
One, the increased mental health
that goes on in prison, two,
the disproportionate number
of ethnic minorities,
people that are in prison.
And the severe cuts
within the services,
especially up north in England,
which have been
impoverished for so long.
When will this government wake up?
Do they not have a conscience?
All right, OK, I’m
going to take one more.
I support stopping the early
release, but I don’t have confidence
about the de—radicalisation
programmes, and so, for me,
it’s not enough, you know,
I think they should
stay there, personally.
So, Georgina, you were asking
whether this was just
postponing the inevitable,
so you think they should be locked
up indefinitely, these people?
Is that what you’re suggesting?
Yeah, probably it is, yeah.
I mean, if someone is planning
to take someone’s life,
then I think they lose their right
to have a free—living life.
Let me just ask one thing,
because you’ve been getting
a bit of a battering,
but I want to ask a serious question
— we know that there is one person
who is in prison at the moment
and whose release is coming up
in a number of weeks,
in three weeks’ time,
and you’re trying to get
this emergency legislation
through to stop him coming out.
If you succeed, by my calculation,
he will be in prison
until about this time next year,
so then what happens?
This is the question,
and the sentencing process,
obviously, is confined
to the sentence passed by the judge,
and that might be an
element of custody, and then
release on licence, we think
the Parole Board should be involved
to do the risk assessment,
but there is a longer term issue,
and if you remember, we had the big
debate about control orders,
the Tpims introduced when Ed
and I were in government together.
Big arguments about whether
that is right, bearing in mind
is no conviction, offence
to attach those orders too.
The management of extremism
in the community is something,
I think, we’re going
to have to grasp now.
And we’ve tried, in the past,
with indeterminate sentences
for public protection,
which I don’t think worked,
because I think the judgments
that we asked judges to make
were rather, frankly, crude,
and have resulted, frankly,
in injustices.
And I think therefore
what we need to do
is calmly revisit that concept,
but develop it in a way,
as we have done with mental
health issues, actually,
and the way in which we deal
with people with a mental health
problem in the criminaljustice
system, and work out
a system where we can assess risk,
protect the public,
but also balance that
against the rule of law,
and those due process issues
that do matter
and make us a civilised society,
make us better than the terrorists,
make us different
and mean that we have something
that is worth defending against
people who seek to divide us,
murder us or injure us.
0K, Robert, thank you.
APPLAUSE.
I’m going to move on,
because we have a lot of questions
on a whole variety of subjects,
so I’m going to try to
get to as many as I can,
but I just want to say
where we will be next week,
which is Dundee, and will bejoined
by the crime writer Val McDermid,
and the following week will be
in Weymouth with the chairman
of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Howard Davies, and political
commentator, train enthusiast
and former Tory Cabinet Secretary
Michael Portillo.
So if you want to be
in the audience, call or go
to the Question Time website
and follow the instructions there.
Do come along if you are in the area
for either of those programmes.
Right, let’s move on.
As I say, a lot of topics
I want to try and get through.
Daniel Warr.
The announcement this week
that fossil fuel cars
will be banned in 2035,
what is the Government going to do
to incentivise us to change cars?
Right, well, Robert,
we have had you speaking a lot,
so I will go around the panel
for a minute.
Ed, what do you think should be
done to incentivise us
to buy electric cars?
Well, I want to make sure
there are a lot cheaper,
and that’s why the Government
is actually not being
ambitious enough.
The Liberal Democrats want
that ban to take place from 2030,
like many other countries.
If you look at what is happening
in the Netherlands, in Sweden,
in Denmark, in Ireland,
in Germany,
they’re all looking at 2030.
Norway has actually gone for 2025.
They’ve got an awful lot
more electric cars
than we have at the moment.
Yes, because they’ve actually
incentivised things.
But the point I’m making is
we need to get these manufacturers
to produce the electric cars
and the ultralow emission
vehicles much cheaper,
and if we give them that earlier
timetable, as other countries
are doing, they’ll all be forced
to produce them on a mass scale that
will mean there is a much greater
choice, the price will come down.
When I was Secretary of State
for Energy and Climate Change,
we did that with offshore wind.
We helped create an industry
by bringing factories to Hull,
which created huge amounts
of green jobs, but it also
helped build the supply chain,
to make it more competitive.
We saw the cost of offshore wind
come down dramatically,
so we’ve got a lot more green power.
We need to do those sorts
of systems in transport,
so you can be driving much
cheaper, cleaner vehicles.
Daniel, what would you
like to see happen?
Well, basically, I don’t think
we’ve got the infrastructure
at all for it.
APPLAUSE.
I think it’s unachievable,
because on the 1st of January 2036,
you’re still going to be able
to drive your petrol car,
they’re not going to stop you
going to a petrol station,
so it’s going to make
no difference to climate change.
This is all about new cars,
isn’t it?
That’s right, it’s about new cars,
and people can’t afford
to buy new cars,
because they are so expensive.
Therre so much more expensive than
your standard
diesel or petrol cars.
Can I reassure Daniel?
Briefly, Ed.
I want to let other people
on the panel talk as well.
They will be able to be charged
overnight at your own home
using much cheaper overnight
electricity,
so in many ways we can do it...
You are talking about the cost
ofjust buying the car.
Where is the cheaper
electricity coming from?
The thing is, this isjust tinkering
around the edges, isn’t it?
You know, looking at the climate
crisis is the most urgent
and pressing issue of our time.
We don’t have long to deal with it.
And they kind of changes
that we are talking about,
you’re asking about how
we can incentivise people.
Well, we do need to do that,
and that needs state intervention.
It needs state—directed policy
to make it easier in all kinds
of ways for people to
make greener choices,
and I think that the blueprint
that the Labour Party came up with,
the green new deal,
is precisely that.
It is a state intervention,
all kinds of things,
it is also 3 jobs creation
programme, and whether that’s
like gigafactories making battery
packs for electric cars or wind
turbine factories in the north—east
or metal reprocessing plants
or carbon capture factories,
whatever it is, that’s the scale
of what we need, and that has to be
a state—directed thing.
We can’tjust expect people
to switch without providing that
kind of level of intervention.
OK, so, Robert, how
are you going to incentivise
people to change cars?
I mean, there is at the moment
a grant knocking 3500
off the price of a car,
as I understand it.
You are phasing that out next month.
Yeah, but we’re also introducing...
Are you going to go ahead with that
phasing down next month?
What we are changing
is the availability
of infrastructure and actually
making sure that we have
more charging points.
Hang on, the point Daniel
was making is
that these cars are very expensive.
The Government at the moment
has a subsidy to help
people buy the cars.
You’ve just made this announcement
that were all going to have
to buy new cars from 2035,
they have to be electric,
and you’re going ahead with phasing
out the subsidy next month.
Because we think there’s
a better way of doing it,
which is actually...
One of the barriers, I think,
a lot of people feel
about electric vehicles is the ease
by which they can be recharged.
Well, cost is the one
that Daniel mentioned.
But I think, by scaling
up the infrastructure,
it means that more people will start
to buy electric cars,
and without scale of demand,
then the price starts to come down.
I think that is the way
we’re going to do this.
We’ve got 15 years...
I think you’ve described...
With respect, you characterise the
Government’s approach to this issue.
There is plenty of direct
intervention that is going
on every year when it comes
to the incentivisation of...
Which won’t be the
scale that we need.
And in fact our record as a country,
and all of us have played our part
in this, is second to none
when it comes to
the move to renewable energy.
The next challenge is transport,
because transport is now
the bulk of those carbon emissions,
which is why I think it’s right
that we’ve brought
forward to that target,
and I think that by scaling
up the infrastructure,
we will start to see that change not
just to battery but to hydrogen,
to a range of different sources
of renewable energy,
which I think is a much more
sustainable way of going forward.
You know, we could be
ambitious and bring forward
the target even more,
but we have to get the balance
right, we have to respect the fact
that there are people out there
who need to have that
financial access to these vehicles.
I believe the proposals
that we’ve come up with
strike the appropriate balance.
Just so I’m clear, because
there’s been talk about the fact
that even though this grant
was going to be scrapped, it might
be reintroduced in the Budget,
but that’s not going to happen,
the subsidy for buying electric
cars, given your announcement
we are all going to be buying them,
that subsidy is going?
Well, I can’tjudge what is going
to happen in the Budget,
that is for my colleague
the Chancellor, but what I can say
is that I think it’s true
infrastructure improvements
that we really start to see
a scaling up of electric vehicles.
Adam. It is one thing saying
all this, but we don’t have
the infrastructure and saying,
oh, you can charge your car
at home really easily,
I can charge most of my mobile
devices at home really easily.
The fact is the battery
runs out and what then?
How many charging terminals do
we need for how many cars
that are going to be kind
of on the roads?
Pushing the price down is one thing,
and a market led approach is great,
but they don’t always work.
I refused to believe that companies
who make electric cars
are going to take a massive hit
on that profit margin,
because the Government has
asked them to do it.
So once again,
these are wonderful ideas,
but how many electric terminals
do we need?
How many electric cars do we expect
there to be on our roads by 2030?
What do we expect the price to be
by then, and how accessible is it
going to be for people,
and is it a cheaper alternative to
the traditional fossil fuel method?
And if it isn’t, why would anyone
in their right mind go for it?
There is a lot of hands up,
the woman in the glasses.
As well as focusing on electric
vehicles, surely we need
to sort out public transport.
Around here, the buses have been
cut, from the villages sometimes
there’s only one day.
The trains for Harpenden
particularly,
there are fewer trains
than we were,
so surely we need to
focus on that as well.
The woman with glasses in the front.
Yes, you.
I’m just wondering,
I know we’re all trying to move
towards electric cars,
but then what do we do
with the batteries?
Isn’t that another environmental
problem that you have to deal with?
The man in the bluejacket.
APPLAUSE.
0h, hi.
Yeah, one thing we do know
is the number of trees
that we need to plant,
which I think is 1.5 billion,
and I think that we are planting
about 25% of what we need
at the moment.
Could we do more there?
0K, let me hearfrom the man
in the greyjacket, yes.
There’s lots of pressure on us
as individuals to make
changes our lifestyles,
but when will major companies
and corporations be held
accountable for their actions?
OK, you mean in terms of polluting?
Yeah.
Stella? We have all got to move to
electric cars at some point, surely.
Everyone is piling into
the Government on this,
and we can talk about the subsidy
and the timing,
but eventually this has
to happen, doesn’t it?
Well, also, look, there’s a cost
to all of us of not doing is,
and I speak as somebody who,
probably like a lot of you,
bought a diesel car thinking
I was doing the right thing,
yes, madam, we both thought
we were doing the right thing!
We don’t have time to wait.
We know that
the climate emergency is real,
and we know that transport
is part of it.
The lady at the back
is absolutely right,
it’s notjust about electric cars,
it’s also about the fact that people
have to have cars because transport
in this country is so poor.
You have to join the dots together.
That’s where good active government
can get involved in this.
I don’t know if we’re going to go
on to talk about Glasgow
and the climate change conference,
it’s where you do need
the leadership, and time after time,
I have to be honest,
this government has not been there.
They’ve said, oh, we have
this market led approach,
but they’ve not been active players
in that market,
and that’s the way to make it work.
We need to have a scrappage scheme
for cars, because it isn’t
just about new cars,
it is about getting the old
polluting cars off the roads.
But we also need those subsidies,
and we need to incentivise
the gigafactories that make
the factories that make the cars
cheaper, because I looked up how
much it would cost for an electric
car and saw the number of dots
at the end of it, you know,
these things are all possible,
but they require planning
by government to say, actually,
were notjust going to wait and see
what happens and hope that
people can find the cash
to make this happen,
we’re going to do this actively.
Because if we don’t,
not just the cost to our economy,
but they cost to our breathing.
I would say to people,
I represent a London constituency,
and when people are concerned
about environmental issues,
I say to them, leave London
for a couple of days,
then blow your nose and realise
what your breathing
in and what we have to change.
We don’t have time to mess around,
we have to do all of this,
because all of us will pay the price
for a government
that is going to sit back and wait
for you to pick up the tab.
With that charming image
in mind, can Ijust ask,
does anyone on the panel
have an electric car?
You do?
And how is it working for you?
I love it.
But I live up the road.
There is one charging
station in all of Harpenden.
And there is always a bunch
of electric vehicles queueing,
waiting to charge.
So it’s not about scaling
up the infrastructure.
The infrastructure needs
to be there already.
There are 18,000 registered
private EV owners in Hertfordshire.
And you can count on just two hands
the number of chargers there are.
So it’s utterly ridiculous.
My car is six years old.
It’s not new technology.
If you bought a new car,
if you bought a new diesel car,
but you had to drive way out
of your way to go and fill it
with diesel, you wouldn’t buy it.
the affordability.
Mine was very affordable.
But there was nowhere to charge it.
And I live in a block
of flats, I don’t have
a driveway to charge it on.
How many of you here are commuters?
A lot of it is notjust about having
a car or having a bus service,
it’s about where you want to travel
and why you want to travel,
and making it easier
for people to work from home
so that we are travelling
where we need to.
And if we could get our train
service working properly...
APPLAUSE
Let’s not make this a free for all.
Let me move on.
I’m going to take another question
from Tanya Powell—Jones.
Tanya, whereabouts are you?
Has impeachment helped or hindered
Donald Trump’s election
campaign, should we care?
Do you care, Tanya?
I do care, yes.
And what is your view?
I think it has helped.
It plays into the idea of him
versus them for his voters.
And what makes you care
about it, why do you think
we should care here?
Because I think it
devalues the impeachment.
That wasn’t the purpose
of what it was meant to be.
If it can be used like this
as a political tool,
what does that mean going forward?
Adam?
what is your view on this?
I think anything you throw
at 3 Donald Trump at this pointjust
isn’t going to stick.
At this point, he is a mud monster,
and just throwing more mud at him
will make him stronger.
I have no idea how he
survived impeachment.
Well, it’s the number of Republicans
in the Senate, I think,
is how he survived it.
It was 3 numbers game
in the end, wasn’t it?
Yeah, I guess that is true.
But it’s just...
I don’t know, it hasjust given him
more momentum going into the real
election that is happening.
And it’s just really baffling to me.
I don’t know how he got
in the first place, even.
Do you think it matters to us here?
Well, we are going to be negotiating
with whoever wins this 2020
election on a trade deal.
And back in April, Barack Obama said
it could take up to ten years
to negotiate such a trade deal
with the US.
And there has been research
done that, on average,
any country entering trade
negotiations with the US,
on average, takes five years.
I mean, Donald Trump is much
more bullish about it.
Yes, exactly, so it will
likely be more than that.
One and a half years negotiating,
three and a half implementation.
And so, yes, I think it does matter.
I think the individual
in the White House that we are
negotiating with once we leave
the EU properly, at the end
of December, absolutely
matters to our country.
0K.
Ed?
Sorry, I’lljust come to Ed
and then I will come to you.
I think it may have improved his
re—election chances,
and I deeply regret that.
Because we should care about it.
Because this man in the White House
is one of the biggest
blocks to action on things
like climate change.
This man in the White House
is actually, with his foreign
policy, created great instability
in places like North Korea,
and the Middle East.
As a progressive politician,
I find his approach
to women, to Muslims,
to Mexicans, quite outrageous.
I hope he loses in November.
I think that would be a real step
forward for the world,
and for those of us who care
about the rights of ordinary people.
APPLAUSE
Do you think that is likely?
I think it’s very difficult
to tell at the moment.
I think we are still waiting
to see who the Democrat
choice for President is.
I hope they choose someone
who can beat Donald Trump,
because that is in the interests
of everyone, the rest of the world.
Rachel?
Well, it might have helped him, but
it was still the right thing to do.
You know, because he did abuse
the power of his office,
and it was corrupt.
So, the Democrats were
right to pursue it.
I don’t think they
could have ignored it.
But what we sawjust now, that
was not a trial, with the Senate.
A trial with no witnesses?
No documentation?
APPLAUSE
And they had John Bolton,
Republican, willing to testify.
Saying, hey, by the way,
I want to testify, I’ve got
something to say about this.
Another way of looking
at it is that is their system,
and they went along
with their system, this
is the result you got.
Well, they went along
with their system, and I think
that is to their shame.
The fact that they were prepared
to have a trial that wasn’t a trial,
I think everybody can see that,
everybody can see
what happened there.
And does it matter?
Yes, of course it does.
I think for people
who are progressives,
leftists or liberals,
there aren’t that many reasons to be
cheerful right now, globally.
So we are all watching
the US election, you know,
and kind of willing the Democrats
to just get it together
and win this time.
The man in the front,
in the purple tie?
We can say that is the system,
but we are also dependent
on the integrity of the individuals.
Donald Trump did abuse his office
in the way that he was accused of.
Mitt Romney recognised that,
and with some integrity
voted for impeachment.
And the rest of the Republicans
said, in effect, yes, he may be
a bully, but he’s our bully,
he is on our side,
so we are going to support him.
That’s what’s going on.
The woman in the green
dress, green top?
I’m worried that our Prime Minister
is beginning to resemble the man
in the White House in his treatment
of minorities, but also press
freedom,
and how he treated journalists
the other day and refused them
entry into the briefing.
Right.
APPLAUSE
We may come onto that.
I know that is a thing that a number
of you have talked about.
Let’s stick with Donald
Trump for a moment.
Stella, has the impeachment helped
or hindered his campaign?
Should we care?
Yes, I think we should care,
because when you normalise
politics without rules,
it has consequences for making it
look more acceptable
in other parts of the world.
I mean, I think you are right, sir,
who would have thought a couple
of years ago that Mitt Romney
would appear to be
a progressive hero?
But he did the right thing.
He said what he thought was right
and he will take the consequences
in the Republican movement.
We are in a politics right now,
there are very many tactics
in American politics that
are being imported into British
politics in terms of how people
campaign, in terms of people’s
arguments about whether experts
and expertise matter.
I think we should all be worried,
because it is driven
in America so much by money.
It’s not driven by democracy.
And actually we are seeing that
in the Democrat movement as well.
What I worry about is that once
somebody has been able, essentially,
to get away with it once,
why not do it again?
And why not then, in this
country, start saying,
well, you know what,
actually, if in America people don’t
accept having all the press
there and difficult press scrutiny,
why not do that here?
If it’s OK to not have clarity
about what you are doing
with your Russian oligarchs
in America, why not
do that in the UK?
It becomes a very slippery slope.
All of us, as politicians, should
always be slightly uncomfortable
that we are being scrutinised.
That is a good thing.
I don’t think that Donald Trump
feels that tonight,
and that is a bad thing.
APPLAUSE
Is that your view?
Is that the Government view?
I do agree with Stella
about the sense of discomfort.
I think that is absolutely the place
that all of us need to be.
The great thing about our system
is that, you know, I can’t
sit in an ivory tower.
I have to come and answer
to colleagues at questions,
and indeed to make statements,
and be held accountable upon that.
I think whilst I’m not
going to get into the weeds
of the American campaign,
I think their system is, should
we say, a rather interesting one.
In that, in a genuine attempt to try
and get separation of powers right,
the executive power of the President
does mean that he or she is rather
remote, I think, from what goes
on day—to—day on the hill.
But what has happened in American
politics is that the tradition
of working across the aisle,
which was a huge part
of the United States Senate for most
of its history, has gone.
We have heard about Mitt Romney.
He is a real throwback to a past
that is within living
memory of many of us,
when the great men and women
of the Senate actually
put their hands across the aisle
and worked together
for the United States of America.
Now, that has vanished.
And a lesson for us,
I think, is this.
In all the partisan hurly—burly
we have had over the last few years,
I think all of us need to look
in the mirror, as politicians
here in the UK, and remember
that there is so much
that unites us.
We are all trying to
get to the same goal.
We might disagree about the means
by which we do it, but we are,
and should be, men and women
of honour and, yes, trust.
Now, that’s been a really difficult
thing for a lot of people recently.
That sense of discomfort
is what I think we need to hold
onto as we learn the lessons of some
of the extreme politics
that we are seeing,
notjust in the USA,
but also closer to home.
Do you feel that sense of discomfort
in terms of doing a deal
with Donald Trump, then?
If you are in some discomfort
about what you have just witnessed?
Today, with the impeachment?
I think the Government has
shown its independence of mind
on issues like Huawei.
We are far from assuming
the position of supplicant...
I’m not suggesting that,
I’m talking about the discomfort.
Or mindlessly following on...
Look, you have to deal with
the President of the United States,
whoever they happen to be.
The office is the office.
Now, I’ve got my personal views.
Ooh, let’s hear them.
Come on!
LAUGHTER.
We want to hear those, don’t we,
ladies and gentlemen?
APPLAUSE.
Come on, Robert.
Cards on the table,
what are your personal views?
Do you feel any discomfort
about Donald Trump and Boris
Johnson being so pally?
Hang on, hang on.
Well, I think apart from the hair
colour, I do not see
that much communality
between a classical scholar...
Are you saying BorisJohnson
and Donald Trump have got
the same hair colour?
I think BorisJohnson might
have a word with you about that.
I do think there are some lazy
comparisons which are not borne
out by the evidence.
What I want to see in
the United States is the Democratic
Party organising its caucuses
efficiently, so that we know
what the results are going to be,
and that the candidate
who they produce will
provide a proper contest,
rather than something that
will be a rollover.
I mean, Trump has confounded
the rules of politics in a way
that perhaps some of us,
I’ll admit I’m quite a conventional
sort of person in the way
that I do my politics,
find difficult and challenging.
But elections are elections.
We have to work with whoever
is democratically elected
in the White House.
You call it a challenging, Robert?
Where do you start with the way
he treats minorities,
treats women, what he’s done.
He nearly caused World
War III with Iran.
That is not difficult
and challenging.
He abused his office of State to be
able to pick on a political rival.
This isn’tjust bad manners.
This is terrible politics,
should be called out as such.
And again, ourforeign policy
was distinct from that
of the Trump White House
in that we do support the nuclear
deal, and have done our best
to try to invoke the dispute
resolution mechanisms,
because we believe,
when we signed treaties,
we believe in due process
of international law.
That is the United Kingdom actually
having a distinct position from that
of the administration...
You rolled out the red carpet
for him to come to this country
because we are weak in the world
right now, rather than strong enough
to stand up and tell him
when he has got things wrong.
And we are all demeaned
by it as a result.
OK, I think this could
go on for some time.
There is another question
I want to get in, if I may,
from Naomi Jamboretz.
Have I pronounced your
surname correctly?
You have, thank you.
Does the panel believe
that I am appropriately
dressed for this occasion?
LAUGHTER
APPLAUSE
Right.
Now, for those of you who are not
sitting around Naomi,
she is wearing an off
the shoulder dress.
Which I assume, Naomi,
is a reference to your colleague,
who was wearing an off the shoulder
dress in the House of Commons,
and had quite a response,
not a favourable one,
and social media.
And the papers were
all over it as well.
ﬂ
I presume you think, yes? I think I
would like my daughter to be
would like my daughter to bejudged
would like my daughter to be judged
on the
would like my daughter to bejudged
on the merits of what she says, and
not what she wears. Why are we going
not what she wears. why are we going
there with
not what she wears. Why are we going
there with this? Because we asked
it. We nearty
it. We nearly had World War III in
it. We hearty had World War III in
Iran, we have
it. We nearly had World War III in
Iran, we have a climate emergency...
You might not like it, but if these
are the questions the audience asks,
that is the purpose of the
programme, let answer it. If it was
Gok Wan challenging her on what she
Gok Wan challanging her on what she
was
Gok Wan challenging her on what she
was wearing, she might be worried
about it, but it was Piers Morgan,
come on! Women can’t win, there was
a shoulder in Parliament, it isn’t a
a shoulder in Partiament, it isn’t a
big deal.
a shoulder in Parliament, it isn’t a
big deal. Stella is absolutely
right. Aggressive politicians have
to stand up from some of the
nonsense we get from right—wing
commentators. Jo Swinson got more
comments about her earrings than
some of thing she was saying. That’s
outrageous. I think women are held
to a different standard from men and
it’s completely wrong. My male
colleague was the first MP to an
open necked shirt, without a tie. It
didn’t really make a headline. And
that is the way men are treated in
that is the my men are treated in
different
that is the way men are treated in
different ways from women and I
think it has got to stop.
There is a serious point here?
There is an absolute
serious point here.
And I think this is what happens
when we put public opinion
and procedure above policy.
And as you said, someone
showed a bit of shoulder
in the House of Commons,
I don’t care.
Do I agree with what she’s saying?
Absolutely.
Is what she’s saying of merit,
and is she a damned good MP
and a woman of character?
Absolutely.
By all means, wear what you want,
I have one of those, a size six,
I’m glad didn’t wear it now,
we would have had the same thing on!
Yes, the woman there.
I personally think
it was inappropriate.
For example, for this evening
we were all asked
to dress smart—casual.
Were you?!
I didn’t know that!
That’s interesting.
Yes, we were. We were.
So I think there’s a slight
hypocrisy there, and if I’m looking
at the ladies on the panel,
you’ve all got...
Well, two of you have
gotjackets on,
and you’ve got a smart dress
which is buttoned up to here.
Why didn’t you wear anything
like Tracy Brabin?
I didn’t wear a cold shoulder top
literally for that reason,
because I get cold shoulders!
Hang on, in fairness...
Why aren’t you asking
the men why they chose...?
Hang on, let mejust make a point.
Because Tracy Brabin did say
she wasn’t expecting to make
a comment at the despatch box,
so she was actually
going out that evening,
so she was slightly taken
by surprise, but nonetheless
was defending her right
to wear what she liked.
But that’s interesting, so you,
as a woman, you’re not supporting
her right to wear
pretty much what she wants.
Because that is irrelevant
to what she says.
No, I think it’s important,
what she said,
but I do think that
there’s a certain dress code.
If she’s leading, she should lead
by example, and I don’t think...
I don’t think the off
the shoulder was appropriate,
because it was too much
off the shoulder,
it looked like a disco outfit
and not like a politician.
0K, there’s quite a few women
with their hands up,
so let’s hear some more.
Yes, the woman in the
glasses at the back.
Yes, it’s fine for women
to wear what they want,
but are we now saying
it’s OK to tear up the dress code
and then, if we do that,
can we blame schoolchildren
who breach uniform codes?
You know?
There’s not a uniform code, though,
in the House of Commons.
I know, but is there a dress code
in the House of Commons?
Because if we say people can wear
anything they want to wear anywhere,
then that means we are tearing up
the dress code anyway and then
there shouldn’t be a uniform code
as well for the children.
That means they’re allowed to
flout uniform codes in school,
if the adults believe they can
actually flout dress codes as well.
0K, lots of women
with their hands up,
let me have a quick scout
around the room.
Yes, the woman there
with the brown hair, yeah. Me?
Yes, I can’t see
what you’re wearing!
But I know you’ve got brown hair.
I think it’s so important to mention
this, because it shows
an overarching theme of culture
that we have today,
where sexual harassment
is so normalised.
I’m 21, and it’s so unusualfor me
to come across someone who hasn’t
had to deal with some form of sexual
harassment, and I was going
to mention the Pretty Little Thing
advert that got banned recently.
Which advert are you referring to?
Pretty Little Thing?
Oh, it was criticised
for being overly sexualised.
Yeah, basically, but I watched it,
and a lot of people 18—24,
which is what it was aimed at,
will be dressing like that,
especially for things like festivals
and things like that.
So if people are told
that it’s wrong to dress like that,
it normalises people
sexual harassing people
who are dressed like that.
And it’s really not OK.
And I think people mentioning...
I can’t remember her name,
but the politician that
had the shoulder...
Tracy Brabin.
Tracy Brabin, that had
the shirt off the shoulder,
itjust shows an overarching culture
that we have today.
0K, two women with their hands up,
then I’ll come back to the panel.
The woman in the red top.
While women are still
underrepresented in politics,
is it really fair to be focusing
so much on what they are wearing
over what they’re saying?
What image is that giving to young
people who want to go into politics,
that your work is going to be
undervalued based on
what you’re wearing?
0K, yes, and the women
just behind you.
Hi.
Yes, as the lady further down
said that Tracy’s dress
looked like a disco outfit,
as a mother of two young girls,
I very much hope that they will
grow up to express themselves
as they feel, and actually I make
many trips to the supermarket
with my daughter dressed
in her tutu,
with her leopard print onesie,
and that’s absolutely fine,
because I think, actually,
dress code, yes,
there has to be
some sort of boundaries,
but actually people should be able
to express themselves how they wish.
And it shouldn’t be judged at all.
You wanted to come in?
Well, there is actually
a dress code in Parliament,
but it’s only for men,
because Parliament
hasn’t thought about the fact
that there might be women there.
Frankly, Tracy could have
been wearing a wimple
and someone would still comment
on what you’re wearing.
I’m sure they would comment
if she was wearing a wimple!
I promise you, one of the things
that I’m going to do when
I get back from maternity leave,
and actually what I’m wearing,
madam, is a shirt so I can
breast—feed, that’s why I’m wearing
what I’m wearing, is to campaign
to make misogyny a hate crime
alongside all the other forms
of abuse that women and men get
so that we treat women equally,
because it’s a thing that’s
tackled street harassment.
When half of all young girls in this
country tell us they’re frightened
to walk our streets,
we have bigger challenges to deal
with than a bare shoulder
in parliament or the fact that
Piers Morgan is offended by it.
APPLAUSE.
I mean, Rachel, what is interesting,
or what struck me anyway,
because I’ve asked exclusively women
for a response to this,
and not everyone is
of the same mind,
we’ve got at least two women
here who don’t support the idea
of Tracy wearing a dress like that.
Well, that’s allowed, I believe.
I’m just making the point.
You know, maybe that
will get banned, who knows?
Give it time!
But I think what’s interesting,
a woman at the back made that point
about how difficult,
how underrepresented women
are in politics as it is,
and I think that’s really important,
because this is just one more way
ofjudging women and, you know,
young people looking at this play
out, and the level of criticism
heaped upon a woman for her dress
choices in parliament
are going to think, you know,
added to the misogyny
and the harassment and the abuse
that women get, disproportionately,
and black women most of all,
would just put them off
getting involved.
Why on earth would you want
to sign up for that?
So I think it’s really important
that we don’t focus on these issues
and do actually talk about policy
and experience and capabilities
and talent instead.
0K, since the question was asked,
we’re going to focus on it
for one more person,
Robert.
I was in the chamber when Tracy came
in to make a point of order,
and you know what was remarkable
about it was that she’s got quite
a nasty issue with her ankle,
and it’s totally bound up
at the moment, I think she might
have had some surgery on it,
and she hopped to the despatch box
to make a point of order
because she was determined to come
in and have his say,
despite the fact, you know,
her mobility was quite
significa ntly restricted.
And frankly, I was more interested
in that than what she was wearing.
She was wearing the equivalent
of black tie, if it was me,
I might have come in wearing black
tie, if I was going on to a dinner.
Get over it, move on,
and let’s focus upon
what politicians of whatever gender,
whatever sex are talking about,
not what they’re wearing.
0K.
APPLAUSE.
I’m going to get one
more question in.
We’ve just got time to do it,
and it’s something
that’s been touched upon already
but there are an awful lot
of questions about it,
so I wanted to raise it quickly
in the time we have left,
from Stephanie Russon, Stephanie.
Should the Prime Minister
speak to all of the press
orjust the ones he likes?
Right.
0K.
APPLAUSE.
Rachel?
Yes, this government is quite
worrying with the press, isn’t it?
It has a really weird
relationship to the press.
We saw it pop up in the general
election campaign as well,
the Government, aside from spreading
a misinformation campaign,
which is why it is so weird to hear
you talking about trust, Robert,
besides that, they seem to not
like the BBC’s undue attention
on things like a toddler
being forced to sleep on the floor
of a hospital for a lack of beds,
to which I would suggest may be,
you know, put some money
into the NHS so that you avoid
having toddlers forced
to lie on the ﬂoor.
This was during
the election campaign.
Rather than getting upset
when the price does itsjob
and draws attention to the fact.
We also have the Government,
I think it has banned ministers,
is it, from appearing on the Today
programme because, you know, those
questions aren’t any good either?
It’s a really worrying trend.
As Stella was saying before,
you should be feeling uncomfortable,
it’s not supposed to be fun for you.
It’s actually your job
to be scrutinised by the media,
and you don’t get to pick and choose
which of the media you want to talk
to, and you don’t get to play
this stupid performative game
of antagonising the media
for the sake of spectacle
and as a way of distracting
from your woeful policies.
APPLAUSE.
Well, I just want to say, thank you,
Robert, because you are on this
programme, thank you for coming
on and taking all the questions
taking the odd one for me as well.
Do you want to respond to that?
I mean, obviously, Rachel has talked
about the Today programme,
have you appeared on
the Today programme?
I was last on the Today programme
during the election campaign,
I did several appearances.
But since then?
No, I haven’t.
Look, I love the Today programme,
Radio 4 has been my radio channel
of choice for about 30 years.
I relish scmtiny,
it’s part of my job as a politician,
but I do think, you know,
with respect, it’s easy to make
jibes against a politician whose
views you disagree with and suggest
that somehow he or she is avoiding
the press, when in fact
what has happened over the last,
you know, few months
has been unprecedented scrutiny,
and scrutiny that continues
in Parliament every week.
So the Prime Minister comes
and answers questions
of MP5 of all different colours,
he and his ministers are exposed
to scrutiny on the floor
of the House where everybody
can watch and everybody can...
Let him answer, please.
Look, the election campaign,
I mean, a lot of us,
you know, I was in the thick of it
in the election campaign,
out on the media
answering questions,
and frankly so was
the Prime Minister.
He was being interviewed many,
many times across the country
by national and local
and regional media.
And he refused to be
questioned by Andrew Neil.
Oh, well, so what?!
So what...?! So what?
So what! Look...
He ran away from scrutiny.
I’m sorry, Ijust think,
when you look at the whole picture,
the idea that somehow BorisJohnson
is someone we don’t know
much about and don’t
know his views, come on!
I mean, he’s probably one
of the most scrutinised
politicians in modern history.
Is there much that we don’t know
about BorisJohnson?
I don’t think so!
And, frankly, you know,
my view is that it’s convenient,
it’s very convenient,
I think, for people who disagree
with him to suggest
that he is running away.
I think the opposite is the case.
It’s just...
Taking a slightly different tack
here, John Humphrys,
when he left the Today programme
in September,
mentioned thatJeremy Corbyn
hadn’t been on the Today programme
for three years.
So I’m wondering, is that a sense
of perspective there?
Look no, look, I think part
of ourjob is to be in that
uncomfortable position
of being scrutinised,
and I don’t think it’s
just about your leader,
I think it’s about all of us,
I think we should try and be part
of a healthy vibrant democracy
when we have those debates.
The challenge here
is it’s part of a pattern.
Somebody there just shouted
about the report into Russia,
you know, this is a government
that is notjust trying
to restrict the press coming
into Downing Street,
not publishing important
reports into intelligence
about whether there had been
Russian interference
in our democracy
before an election.
When judges challenge them,
start to talk about changing
the rules of the Supreme Court.
A government that then
starts floating the idea
that we might get rid of
the BBC is a national broadcaster.
It starts to paint a picture
of somebody who actually
doesn’t enjoy scrutiny,
Robert.
You know, if it walks like a duck,
talks like a duck,
there is a lot of quacking
going on here,
but not much actual scrutiny
of what government is doing.
And for us to be able to do ourjob,
you know, I can sit in Parliament,
I can ask one question,
but I am just one MP.
We need a healthy, vibrant press,
we need an independentjudiciary,
because that independence
is what keeps us honest
and keeps our democracy free
and healthy for all of us.
And when that gets threatened
and slowly the strings
get taken away piece by piece,
which is what BorisJohnson
is doing, all of us will be
damaged by it as a result.
And yes, I would hold
the Labour Party up and say, yes,
we have to be part of that process
too, we have to be accountable,
but I’m not going to give
BorisJohnson a free pass
when what he’s doing now is
not going on mainstream media
but has its own Facebook channel
where he is pretending
to be like Jennifer Aniston,
jumping out on people
like she’s on Friends!
Extraordinary...
We are almost out of time.
We’ve only got about a minute left.
I think now more than ever,
politicians need to be held
accountable
and ask the right questions
and give good, solid answers.
The time for catchphrases
and signposting has been and gone.
It has happened, we have left,
and so on and so forth.
And yes, he does duck interviews,
he does get a free pass,
and if only being interviewed
by the people he likes,
what does that say?
Anyone can be...
Even the nastiest people
can be nice to their friends.
Ed, we’ve only got about
30 seconds left, I’m afraid.
Hugely serious issue.
Dominic Cummings, the Prime
Minister’s right hand person,
called the BBC the mortal enemy
of the Conservative Party.
We have got to stand up for the BBC
if we do nothing else.
APPLAUSE.
All right.
On that note, our hour is up.
Thank you very much
for all your questions,
and I know this issue ofjournalists
came up earlier,
and a lot of you asked it,
so Ijust wanted to get it
in quickly at the end,
I’m sorry I didn’t have time
for many comments from you.
But our time is up.
Next week we are in Dundee,
and a week after that we
will be in Weymouth.
Call if you would like to be
in the audience
or go to the Question Time website,
and you can follow
the instructions there.
If you want to carry on
this discussion,
you can have your say
on tonight’s topics,
you canjoin Adrian Giles and guests
on Question Time Extra Time,
that’s on 5 live right now.
But itjust remains for me to say
thank you very much to the panel,
thank you very much to the audience
here for coming along
and asking so many questions,
and thank you to you at home,
of course, for watching
and for listening.
From Harpenden, bye—bye.
APPLAUSE.
It’s like Armageddon out there.
We don’t have enough staff,
we don’t have enough machines,
we don’t have enough room.
He’s about half—a—centimetre
away of being dead.
It’s a huge operation for
the patient, it’s life or death.
Hopefully, we will save
this patient’s life today.
The human stories
behind the headlines.
Award—winning Hospital returns.
What is a spofﬂe? We used to call
what is a spoﬂh? We used to all
it a muff,
What is a spofﬂe? We used to call
it a muff, and then we got into
troubla. I
trouble. I am glad we are going for
troubla. I am glad we are going for
the same
trouble. I am glad we are going for
the same level of tone right at the
start of the programme. Have you
spotted the things that have
changed? Now I know the spofﬂe,
there is now a new label on the
table. It is carved in the. I hadn’t
realised that. I think it is laser.
The screen over there has changed,
same graphic,
same graphics, different word. One
same graphic, different word. One
of the
same graphics, different word. One
of the bits of branding is still
2019 in flavour. The Brexitcast
2019 in ﬂavour. The Brexitrast
blind.
2019 in flavour. The Brexitcast
blind. The blind leading the blind.
He is changing it. Welcome to
Newscast!
Going to pizza express in Woking is
Going to pim express in Woking is
an
Going to pizza express in Woking is
an unusual thing for me to do. You
are a white, privileged mail. Nobody
has a BLEEP clue what Brexit is.
This is a quality issue. I urge
everybody to find closure and let
healing begin. You have stolen my
dreams in my childhood with your
empty words. You are failing us. The
first thing we are going to talk
about is what we did on our old
podrast,
podcast, Brexitcast. Everybody
podrast, Brexitrast. Everybody
thought
podcast, Brexitcast. Everybody
thought the story would disappear
after the big day, did two days, and
then came back on Monday. Back into
the nitty-gritty
the nitty—gritty of what Brexit is
the nitty-gritty of what Brexit is
going to
the nitty—gritty of what Brexit is
going to look like, the future of
the arrangement,